README.md, before:

# Hedwig 🦉

## ⚡️ Quick Start

Clone the repo and install dependencies with [pnpm](https://pnpm.js.org/):

```bash
pnpm install
```

Create a `.env` file in the root folder.
Create a new Firebase project. [Get the Firebase's configuration object](https://support.google.com/firebase/answer/7015592) and use it to set the `FIREBASE_CONFIG` variable in the `.env` file:

```bash
FIREBASE_CONFIG=THE_CONFIGURATION_OBJECT
```

Be careful to put the whole object in a single row, eliminating every new line character.

[Create a private key for the Firebase's service account](https://firebase.google.com/docs/admin/setup#initialize_the_sdk_in_non-google_environments) and use it to set the `FIREBASE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT` variable in the `.env` file:

```bash
FIREBASE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT=THE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_PRIVATE_KEY
```

Again, be careful to put the whole object in a single row, eliminating every new line character.

Start the local development server:

```bash
pnpm dev
```

Open [localhost:3000](http://localhost:4321) in your browser to see the site!

That's it! You're ready to start contributing to the project! 🥳

[⚡ Live demo](https://hedwig-demo-app.web.app/)

## 🚀 Project Structure

Inside of your Astro project, you'll see the following folders and files:

```
/
├── public/
│   └── favicon.svg
├── src/
│   ├── feature-x/
│   │   └── ComponentName.astro
│   │   └── AnotherComponentName.astro 
│   ├── shared/
│   │   └── Card.astro
│   └── pages/
│       └── index.astro
└── package.json
```

Astro looks for `.astro` or `.md` files in the `src/pages/` directory. Each page is exposed as a route based on its file name.

There's nothing special about `src/feature-x/`, (replace "x" with any component name that you want)  but that's where we like to put any Astro/React/Vue/Svelte/Preact components or something related to the feature.

Any static assets, like images, can be placed in the `public/` directory.

## 🧞 Commands

All commands are run from the root of the project, from a terminal:

| Command             | Action                                           |
| :------------------ | :----------------------------------------------- |
| `pnpm install`      | Installs dependencies                            |
| `pnpm dev`          | Starts local dev server at `localhost:3000`      |
| `pnpm build`        | Build your production site to `./dist/`          |
| `pnpm preview`      | Preview your build locally, before deploying     |
| `pnpm astro ...`    | Run CLI commands like `astro add`, `astro check` |
| `pnpm astro --help` | Get help using the Astro CLI                     |

## Tools used

- [Tailwind CSS (Utility-First CSS Framework)](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- [DaisyUI (Tailwind CSS Components)](https://daisyui.com/)
- [astro-i18n](https://github.com/yassinedoghri/astro-i18next) - TBD

## User Personas

You can find the User Personas in the [Wiki page](https://github.com/gdgpescara/hedwig/wiki/User-Personas) and on [Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/8TIY8v09HJbxblDy2ZZfiL/GDG-Pescara---User-Personas---User-Journery?type=design&node-id=8%3A7&mode=design&t=t5UFCQfpvqX27Jno-1)

## Mockup

TBD

## Contributing

**New contributors welcome!** Check out our [Contributors Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for help getting started.

Join us on [Telegram](https://gdgpescara.page.link/telegram) to meet other maintainers. We'll help you get your first contribution in no time!

## Code of Conduct
[![Contributor Covenant](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributor%20Covenant-2.1-4baaaa.svg)](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

## License

The project is published under the [MIT license](/LICENSE.md).
Feel free to clone and modify repo as you want, but don't forget to add a reference to authors :)

Commit message:

DOC06 - Document how to develop a function

README.md, after:

# Hedwig 🦉

## ⚡️ Quick Start

Clone the repo and install dependencies with [pnpm](https://pnpm.js.org/):

```bash
pnpm install
```

Create a `.env` file in the root folder.
Create a new Firebase project. [Get the Firebase's configuration object](https://support.google.com/firebase/answer/7015592) and use it to set the `FIREBASE_CONFIG` variable in the `.env` file:

```bash
FIREBASE_CONFIG=THE_CONFIGURATION_OBJECT
```

Be careful to put the whole object in a single row, eliminating every new line character.

[Create a private key for the Firebase's service account](https://firebase.google.com/docs/admin/setup#initialize_the_sdk_in_non-google_environments) and use it to set the `FIREBASE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT` variable in the `.env` file:

```bash
FIREBASE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT=THE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_PRIVATE_KEY
```

Again, be careful to put the whole object in a single row, eliminating every new line character.

Start the local development server:

```bash
pnpm dev
```

Open [localhost:3000](http://localhost:4321) in your browser to see the site!

That's it! You're ready to start contributing to the project! 🥳

[⚡ Live demo](https://hedwig-demo-app.web.app/)

## 🚀 Project Structure

Inside of your Astro project, you'll see the following folders and files:

```
/
├── public/
│   └── favicon.svg
├── src/
│   ├── feature-x/
│   │   └── ComponentName.astro
│   │   └── AnotherComponentName.astro 
│   ├── shared/
│   │   └── Card.astro
│   └── pages/
│       └── index.astro
└── package.json
```

Astro looks for `.astro` or `.md` files in the `src/pages/` directory. Each page is exposed as a route based on its file name.

There's nothing special about `src/feature-x/`, (replace "x" with any component name that you want)  but that's where we like to put any Astro/React/Vue/Svelte/Preact components or something related to the feature.

Any static assets, like images, can be placed in the `public/` directory.

## Firebase Functions

We make use of Firebase Functions in the project. To understand how they are used and how to contribute to Functions development or just how to develop your own Function, please, refer to the [Technical Documentation on Firebase Functions](https://github.com/gdgpescara/hedwig/wiki/Firebase-Functions).

## 🧞 Commands

All commands are run from the root of the project, from a terminal:

| Command             | Action                                           |
| :------------------ | :----------------------------------------------- |
| `pnpm install`      | Installs dependencies                            |
| `pnpm dev`          | Starts local dev server at `localhost:3000`      |
| `pnpm build`        | Build your production site to `./dist/`          |
| `pnpm preview`      | Preview your build locally, before deploying     |
| `pnpm astro ...`    | Run CLI commands like `astro add`, `astro check` |
| `pnpm astro --help` | Get help using the Astro CLI                     |

## Tools used

- [Tailwind CSS (Utility-First CSS Framework)](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- [DaisyUI (Tailwind CSS Components)](https://daisyui.com/)
- [astro-i18n](https://github.com/yassinedoghri/astro-i18next) - TBD

## User Personas

You can find the User Personas in the [Wiki page](https://github.com/gdgpescara/hedwig/wiki/User-Personas) and on [Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/8TIY8v09HJbxblDy2ZZfiL/GDG-Pescara---User-Personas---User-Journery?type=design&node-id=8%3A7&mode=design&t=t5UFCQfpvqX27Jno-1)

## Mockup

TBD

## Contributing

**New contributors welcome!** Check out our [Contributors Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for help getting started.

Join us on [Telegram](https://gdgpescara.page.link/telegram) to meet other maintainers. We'll help you get your first contribution in no time!

## Code of Conduct
[![Contributor Covenant](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributor%20Covenant-2.1-4baaaa.svg)](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

## License

The project is published under the [MIT license](/LICENSE.md).
Feel free to clone and modify repo as you want, but don't forget to add a reference to authors :)
